#summary Introduction into PDE.
#labels Featured,Phase-Implementation,Phase-Deploy

= Introduction =

PDE is used to detect software design pattern in Java software. It is written in Java. 


= Prerequisites =

Note: In order to run PDE, the following things need to be installed
  * Static fact extraction: SWAG toolkit from the University of Waterloo. We make use of javex, grok and ql from the toolkit to extract static facts from the Java software that is analyzed. The toolkit can be downloaded [http://www.swag.uwaterloo.ca/swagkit/index.html here]. The user of PDE does not need any knowledge about javex, grok and ql. PDE will take care of executing the tools when needed.
  * Dynamic fact extraction: In order to extract dynamic facts from the Java software we use the TPTP Plugin for Eclipse, see [http://www.eclipse.org/tptp/ Eclipse Plugin TPTP]. We provide a probe for TPTP that will instrument the code so that the result is stored in a format the PDE is able to use.

== Installation of TPTP == 

To install TPTP packages using the Eclipse Update Manager:
  * From the Help menu in Eclipse, select Software Updates > Find and Install.
  * Select the Search for new features to install radio button. Click Next.
  * Add a new update site by clicking on New Remote Site.
  * Enter the following name and URL and click OK:
  # Name: TPTP Update site
  # URL: http://eclipse.org/tptp/updates/site.xml
  * Click Finish.
  * In the "Search Results" dialog box, select the features to install. Then click Next.
  * In the "Feature License" dialog box, accept the license and click Next.
  * In the "Installation" dialog box, verify the features to be installed and change install location if necessary. Then click Finish.
  * After you click Finish, you will be presented a confirmation about a digital signature. Click Install All.
  * When done, restart your workbench.


== Installation of Javex, Grok and QL (SWAG toolkit)

For the installation of these three tools please refer to the [http://www.swag.uwaterloo.ca/swagkit/index.html website]. These three tools can only be deployed under Linux. Therefore we suggest to install and setup PDE under a Linux environment so that the files do not need to be copied from one environment to another.